---
title: 'Super Smash Brothers Ultimate: A Comprehensive Look'
date: '2019-02-01'
---

Now that it has been about 2 months since the release of *Super Smash Brothers: Ultimate* for the Nintendo Switch, I feel it is necessary to write a comprehensive review on the game itself. For this game in particular, I will really only look at gameplay feel, roster choices, and the overall feel of the game.

Firstly, the gameplay. For this iteration of Smash Bros, it is very well done. It is very well designed for the portability of the Switch, allowing you to use the Joycon Controllers in a very dynamic way. Want to go completely mobile and fight Ike on the train? Handheld Mode is very comfortable to use. Don't like Handheld mode, btu still want to play solo? Detatch the Joycons and use them way from the screen for a more ergonomic feel. Have a friend or friends that you want to play a couple rounds with? Use each Joycon as a seperate controller, with support for up to 8 players in a single match. Don't like the Joycons? Connect a Switch Pro Controller and use that instead for a more traditional gamepad feel. Really, the options are multiple, with choices available for a variety of playstyles.

Controls aside, the roster for this game is large, including all the fighters from the previous Super Smash Brothers titles, as well as including all the downloadable characters from the last Super Smash game, which released on the WiiU. This makes the roster an astounding 74 different characters to choose from, from series as old as Pokemon and Mario, to Legend of Zelda, third-party characters like Snake from the Metal Gear Series, Ryu from Street Fighter, and many more. This also supports for a variety of different fighting styles and approaches, and makes every fight feel unique.

The game mode options are also pretty interesting. Aside from standard Smash Mode and Classic Mode, there is an ingrained Tourney Mode for hosting Smash Bros tournaments at home and decide who's the best in the family. There is also a World of Light mode, which essentially functions as a Story Mode of sorts. This mode is interesting becuase of the ability of bulding a perfect team with the Spirits and, by extenson, the Spirit board. The basic idea is this is that the spirits serve as support buffs, giving bonuses like items at the start of the match, providing raw number buffs, and many more extras. ALl the while, the types and raw strength in Spirits give this mode a level of strategem that I find intriguing and fun to play around with.

The only major gripe I have with this title is the unlock system. To date, I have unlocked roughly 80% of the roster, though admittedly I don't play too often and for short bursts. For some people, the whole roster was unlocked within the first week of launch, citing the simplicity of unlocking new fighters. Nintendo did a decent job with being able to unlock fighters bey pretty much any means and playing any game mode. My problem personally is that, as someone who has very litte time to actually play the game, I would like to have seen the unlock rate scale with the time you play. As an example, someone who plays the game daily for 2 hours should be able to unlock the same amount of characters as someone who puts in an inordinate amount of hours on the game. This would have made it A LOT easier for me to get the entire roster within a week as well. But that is more through fault of my own, since I probably could have squeezed more game time throughout the day.

So my verdict: this is an impressive, well designed game. The variety in control input methods, the rich cast of characters, and a mix of classic and modern game modes that will appease many types of players. It is a game that both helps you make and ruin friendships, a la Mario Kart. Despite that tho, it is a game that is definitely worth a purchase and play, because it has SOMETHING to offer for everyone.
