---
title: 'Dark Souls on Switch: Is It Worth?'
date: '2019-01-28'
---

***Will the Age of Fire be rekindled, or will the Darkness take over and extinguish that flame?*** Such was the question in *Dark Souls*, the legendary game developed by **From Software**, published by **Bandai Namco**, and originally released in October 2011 for the Playstation 3 and Xbox 360, with a release just a year later for Windows PCs. Currently, the series has received a Remaster of sorts, updating to higher resolution textures and fixing the plethora of bugs that were present at the time of release. This version, dubbed *Dark Souls: Remastered*, was release for the Playstation 4 and Xbox 1 on May of 2018. There was also one more version of the game, the version for the Nintendo Switch, which hit store shelves and the Nintendo E-Shop on October 20, 2018. And so, with the release of the game on the Nintendo Switch, I thought I would take a look and see whether or not it stands as a worthy variant of this legendary RPG.

The world of Lordran is one with a very foggy past. The world before Lordran was a world ruled by Dragons, great being with stone scales that made them practically immortal, It wasn't until Lord Gwyn and his allies, who found the Lord Souls, that they were able to overthrow the Dragons and establish the age of fire. You awake sometime after that event, to a world that has fallen to destruction and decay. You're goal is to find out explore the world and discover the truth about the Hollow, or the enemies that litter the land and seek to kill you.

The one thing I am impressed with is the way thew port was handled. This is primarily because it seems that they took the best of both the console and PC releases, taking refined console controls with the enhanced textures available to the PC port. This makes the game feel super smooth to play while also being good to look at on the small display.

The control scheme, on the other hand, is the one thing I have a gripe with. The buttons (specifically the face buttons) are mapped similar to the Xbox or PS4 controller. So instead of having the A button as confirming items in the menus and the B button to go back, we instead have the B button to confirm options and the A button to go back in the menus. This takes a while to get used to, and I found myself getting those buttons confused on many occasions and risking death.

Speaking of which, the gameplay feels very familiar, and the mechanics to the original releases still apply. There is no actual pause state, and you are constantly on your toes fighting the Hollow and other creatures that populate the land of Lordran. Weapons feel just right to use (my favorites being the long sword and my quest is ultimately to wield the Zweihander, a powerful but very heavy longsword, one handed). Weight of the weapons and armor you have equipped play a great role in how your character moves and evades, and balancing strength and  movement is a pretty fun experience.

In its current state, this game is an amazing title for the Switch. It's fast paced combat and RPG mechanics make this a game that will bring hundreds upon hundreds of hours of enjoyment creating new builds, exploring different paths every playthrough and discovering some of the deeper lore this series has to offer. I would personally recommend it as a must have game for anyone who likes RPGs and the freedom of exploring large open worlds.